CONSTITUTION
OF THE SPACE NATION OF ASGARDIA


We, the people of planet Earth, irrespective of our place of birth, residence, language, gender, sexual orientation, race, nationality, creed, financial standing, or citizenship of Earth nations, use our free choice, will, and conviction, in the desire to:
• unite humanity above ethnic, national, and religious divides, based on morality, fairness, peace, and the equal dignity of every human being, as humankind which looks to the future and the infinite space of the Universe,
• resolve differences, conflicts, inequality, and imperfections in human history, bring spiritual and scientific practices and human creative achievements to a new level in all their civilizational and cultural multitude, and launch a new era in the history of humanity in space,
• based on the Declaration of Unity of Asgardia as an integral part of this Constitution,
have founded Asgardia, the first Space Nation in human history, and hereby adopt this Constitution of Asgardia.


CHAPTER 1. DECLARATION OF UNITY OF ASGARDIA

We, the free people of
the first Space Nation in the history of existing humanity,
Asgardia,
based on the need to expand into the Universe,
adopt this
Declaration

§ 1. Asgardia is a free and unified space nation. 
§ 2. The objectives of Asgardia are to:
 a. ensure peace in space;
 b. ensure the protection of humankind from outer space threats;
 c. ensure equal opportunities in space for all Asgardians living on Earth, regardless of geographic, financial, technological, and other features of the countries of their earthly citizenship.
§ 3. Any citizen of Earth can become a citizen of Asgardia, if he/she concurs with this Declaration, and respects the Constitution and legislation of Asgardia. 
§ 4. All citizens of Asgardia are equal, regardless of their place of birth, current residence, language, gender, sexual orientation, race, nationality, creed, financial standing, or citizenship of Earth nations. 
§ 5. Asgardia respects the laws and international agreements of the nation states on Earth and wishes to be recognized as an equal country among other nation states on Earth. 
§ 6. Asgardia does not interfere in the affairs of the nation states of Earth on the principle of reciprocity.
§ 7. Asgardia takes part in events on Earth at an international level, like any other country, based on its membership in respective international organizations.
§ 8. Asgardia respects the rights of citizens of Earth nation states, and protects the rights of its own citizens when it comes to their exclusive rights as citizens of the Space Nation. 
§ 9. Asgardia encourages Citizens to participate in the legislative processes of Government and civic duties while discouraging political parties or entities that divide the Space Nation.
§ 10. Asgardia mirrors the Earth, but it does not reflect the Earth’s borders. At the same time, in the framework of earthly law, every Asgardian can freely reside within the borders of any earthly country.
§ 11. Asgardia encourages progressive scientific research, thinking and international cooperation. Every Asgardian can freely practice any religion on Earth.
§ 12. Asgardia endeavors to boldly travel beyond the history of Earth and build a new future for all in Space.



We, the people of Asgardia, will do everything for the prosperity
of our new space nation created by us;
for the expansion and development of our species into the Universe;
One Humanity - One Community.
This Declaration is a primary document for the creation of 
Asgardia - the Space Nation



CHAPTER 2.
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1. Name
The terms “Space State,” "Space Nation," “Space Nation of Asgardia,” and “Asgardia” are synonymous.
Article 2. Status
Asgardia is a Democratic Technocracy that is the first free space unitary, social nation under law which is above ethnic, national, and religious divides, based on morality, fairness, peace, and the equal dignity of every human being, which looks to the future and the infinite space of the Universe.

Article 3. Mission
To ensure the existence and development of Asgardia and humanity’s expansion in space.

Article 4. Supreme Values of Asgardia
§ 1. Asgardia’s Supreme Values are the common and permanent foundations of the self-identification of Asgardian citizens. These Supreme Values form the commonality of Asgardian society and lie at the heart of the objectives and activities of Asgardian state bodies, citizens, and associations.
§ 2. The Constitution, laws, and other regulations of Asgardia, as well as the activities of its state bodies, implement and protect Asgardia’s Supreme Values.
§ 3. Asgardia’s absolute Supreme Value is humanity striving into the limitless future of the limitless Universe, an unstoppable quest to understand and transform the Universe.
§ 4. Asgardia’s Supreme Values in fulfilling its Mission are:
 a. peace in space and the peaceful settlement of the Universe;
 b. protection of all of humanity from space-originating threats;
 c. ensuring equality of opportunity in space for all Asgardian citizens;
 d. unity of humanity as a community in space;
 e. human dignity, human rights, freedoms, and the harmonious development of the individual;
 f. human life, love, children, family, and the propagation of the human species;
 g. supremacy of law; 
 h. space ecology;
 i. community and mutual support; 
 j. scientific advancement, artistic creativity, and the belief in the boundless potential of human reason, knowledge, labor, and progress;
 k. peace, tranquility, security, and confidence;
 l. morality, fairness, and freedom;
 m. harmonious existence of the individual, society, and the Space Nation.
§ 5. Asgardia’s Supreme Values are equally important and equally implemented in state administration. In the event of a conflict between the Supreme Values, the absolute Supreme Value of Asgardia prevails.
§ 6. Asgardia’s Supreme Values apply to relations with Earth nation states and citizens, as well as any discovered alien intelligence.
§ 7. Citizens must implement and protect Asgardia's Supreme Values from internal and external infringement.

Article 5. Territory
§ 1. At the time of its foundation, Asgardia’s territory is the digitised noosphere, a digital state with living citizens on Earth, which exists on a near-Earth orbit, in the form of a single satellite or an orbital satellite constellation.
§ 2. Asgardia expands its territory by creating Asgardian localities on Earth, near-Earth orbits, and/or celestial bodies.
§ 3. Asgardian localities on Earth are peacefully and lawfully acquired natural hard and liquid surfaces on Earth and platforms situated on such surfaces.
§ 4. Asgardian localities on near-Earth orbits satellites, orbital satellite constellations, and man-made platforms (Space Arks) and devices used to protect Asgardia.
§ 5. Asgardian localities on celestial bodies are Asgardian celestial entities, which may be located on the Moon and other objects in the Solar System and elsewhere in the Universe.
§ 6. Asgardia uses adjacent territories (hard surfaces, subsurface resources, oceans, atmospheres, space, celestial bodies, etc.) in accordance with generally recognised international principles and norms, as well as international treaties to which Asgardia is a party.



CHAPTER 3. CITIZENSHIP OF ASGARDIA

Article 6. Asgardian Citizens
§ 1. Any resident of Earth over the age of 16 who agrees to Asgardia’s Declaration of Unity and Constitution and consciously submits his/her digital personal data to Asgardia’s Space Database may become an Asgardian citizen. 
§ 2. Citizenship of Asgardia is a special type of citizenship and does not constitute dual or second citizenship for the purposes of Earth nation citizenship. A citizen of an Earth nation becoming an Asgardian citizen does not confer multiple citizenship status unless otherwise stipulated by an international treaty to which Asgardia is a party.
§ 3. A child gains citizenship of Asgardia at birth if at least one parent is a citizen of Asgardia. A child born before the foundation of Asgardia may become a citizen at the request of his/her parent(s) who are citizens of Asgardia.
§ 4. Citizenship may be terminated by the Asgardian citizen waiving citizenship or by Asgardia revoking or suspending citizenship rights. Grounds for revocation of citizenship, as well as restrictions on the acceptance of new citizens, are set by the Law of Asgardia. 

Article 7. Location of Citizens
§ 1. Asgardian citizens have the right of free movement in Asgardian localities and the right to choose their location in Earth nation states. No levies nor port fees shall be imposed on citizens moving between Asgardian territories.
§ 2. An Asgardian citizen’s permanent residence in an Earth nation does not deprive or diminish his/her rights or freedoms, does not suspend or terminate his/her citizenship and does not annul his/her obligations to Asgardia.

Article 8. Key Citizen Rights and Freedoms 
§ 1. The fundamental human rights of Asgardia are fruits of the age-old struggle of humanity to be free; they have survived the many exacting tests for durability and are conferred upon this and future generations in trust, to be held for all time inviolate. The people shall not be prevented from enjoying any of the fundamental human rights. These fundamental human rights guaranteed to the people by this Constitution shall be conferred upon the people of this and future generations as eternal and inviolate rights. 
§ 2. All people shall be respected as individuals. Their right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness shall not be infringed, to the extent that it does not interfere with the public welfare, the Supreme Values of Asgardia, or in other governmental affairs. All Citizens are considered equal under the law and there shall be no discrimination in political, economic, or social relations because of place of birth, residence, language, gender, sexual orientation, race, nationality, creed, financial standing, or citizenship of Earth nation states. 
§ 3. All persons born within Asgardian territories will be granted citizenship.
§ 4. All citizens, upon reaching 16 Earth-years are empowered to exercise their full rights and obligations.
§ 5. Key Citizen Rights and Freedoms: 
 a. Asgardia shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the people’s right to peaceful assembly, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Freedom of the press shall not be impeded except where State secrets must be kept in the broadest discretion;
 b. the right to participate in managing the affairs of the state both directly and via representatives;
 c. the right to elect and be elected/appointed to Asgardia’s state bodies and participate in referenda;
 d. the right to put forward legislative proposals;
 e. the right to access to information about the activities of state bodies, officials, and supervise them;
 f. the right to participate in exploration of space and universal access to scientific information and research;
 g. the right to personal safety and the safety of the home;
 h. the right to self-governance;
 i. the right to own and inherit property.
§ 6. Children shall not be exploited. 
§ 7. All citizens have the right to seek legal reprieve in the Court of Justice for any infringement of rights and property. Every person may sue for redress as provided by law from the State or a public entity, in case he has suffered damage through illegal act of any public official. 
§ 8. Asgardian citizens may not be extradited to other states except as defined by the law.
§ 9. Asgardian citizens have the right to create associations and societies based on the law.
§ 10. Citizen rights and freedoms may only be restricted by the law of Asgardia to the extent required to protect Asgardia’s national sovereignty, ensure Asgardia’s security, enable the performance of its mission and supreme values, and protect the rights of Asgardian citizens.
§ 11. The enumeration of specific citizen rights and freedoms in this article shall not be interpreted as the negation or diminishment of other citizen rights and freedoms stipulated by other articles of Asgardia’s Constitution, the laws of Asgardia, and generally recognised human rights and freedoms.
Article 9. Key Citizen Obligations
§ 1. Asgardian citizens have inalienable and indispensable rights. Asgardian citizen obligations arise from the moment they become citizens of Asgardia.
§ 2. All Asgardian citizens must respect, and not violate, the rights, freedoms, and established Law of Asgardia.
§ 3. All persons on Asgardian territory must comply with Asgardia’s Constitution, its laws and regulations, as well as respecting Asgardia’s Supreme Values.
§ 4. All citizens of Asgardia must comply with the Constitution, Asgardia’s laws and regulations, respect and implement its Supreme Values irrespective of their location, unless this results in violation of the law of the country in which they are located.
§ 5. The people shall be liable to taxation as provided by law.
§ 6. Asgardian citizens have the right to participate in elections and referenda. No law, decree, or amendment shall prevent any citizen from participation in the processes of Government. Citizens regardless of origin, creed, or physical location shall be permitted to participate in elections and referenda.
§ 7. Asgardian citizens have a responsibility to support good practices for conservation, regeneration and sustainability of all natural environments.
§ 8. Protecting Asgardia’s national sovereignty, security, and performing its mission and Supreme Values is an obligation of every Asgardian citizen.
§ 9. In accordance with the established Law, gross failure to perform citizen obligations may lead to suspension or permanent revocation of Asgardian citizenship, fines, restriction, and/or permanent revocation of access to Asgardia’s electronic and physical resources.

Article 10. Guarantees of Citizen Rights and Freedoms
§ 1. The state guarantees the rights and freedoms of citizens through the use of state body powers and all available resources.
§ 2. The state is liable for protecting citizen rights and freedoms and ensuring that they can be exercised.
§ 3. Guarantees of citizen rights and freedoms are supported using state property which serves as the material foundation for the exercising of state powers and performance of state obligations.
§ 4. The rights and freedoms of Asgardian citizens are guaranteed through the establishment of corresponding state obligations in the Constitution and Asgardia’s laws.
§ 5. The state guarantees that its aims, plans, and development forecasts, including threats and risks to its development, will be publicly disclosed.
§ 6. The state guarantees that any Asgardian legal act may be repealed on the request of Asgardian citizens by means of the appropriate procedure set by Asgardian law.



CHAPTER 4. ASGARDIAN RESOURCES

Article 11. Human Resources
§ 1. Asgardia encourages the development of human resources.
§ 2. Asgardia uses its own material, financial, and other resources to ensure free access to distance learning, professional qualifications, and scientific and creative work for Asgardian citizens.
§ 3. Asgardian citizens are entitled to free time for self-development, self-improvement, and creative and cultural pursuits for a minimum of thirty-five (35) percent of Earth-days in the Earth-year while employed by a business operating within Asgardian territories. It is not required to spend this time contiguously.
§ 4. Asgardia works to create jobs and facilitate maximum utilization of the abilities and qualifications of its citizens.

Article 12. Natural Resources
§ 1. Asgardia’s natural resources include material objects, energy, and information streams in space environments in the Universe within Asgardian territory, and adjacent environments in accordance with generally recognized international principles and norms, as well as international treaties to which it is a party.
§ 2. Asgardia uses space resources in accordance with international space law.
§ 3. Asgardia’s natural resources may be exclusively state property, the property of state-owned companies, public or private property, as well as other property defined under the law of Asgardia.
§ 4. Asgardia uses all available resources to ensure the safety and sustainability of its natural resources and the space environment, and supports corresponding initiatives in accordance with procedure set by the law of Asgardia.

Article 13. Financial Resources
§ 1. Asgardia’s sovereign financial resources are comprised of state and private finance. Arbitrary seizure of private financial resources is prohibited.
§ 2. Asgardia’s currency is the Solar. The symbols for Solar will be established by Asgardia’s National Bank. Solar shall not be represented with a decimal place or fractional value.
§ 3. Asgardian currency is freely exchangeable into all of the main global currencies on the free market on Earth.
§ 4. Asgardia’s National Bank is responsible for the exchange rate, issuance and circulation of finance, as well as the stability of the sovereign currency and bank system liquidity. Asgardia’s National Bank is regulated by the law of Asgardia.
§ 5. Asgardia’s sovereign currency is issued by the National Bank further defined by the law of Asgardia. Asgardia’s National Bank is a lender of last resort.
§ 6. The Government is responsible for the national budget, external financial exchange, the tax system, and the borrowing of money on the credit of Asgardia.
§ 7. Asgardia’s National Bank facilitates the development of a banking system for state-owned and private banks, regulates their operations and profitability. Bank regulations may not be restricted by international treaties.
§ 8. Revenue from state licences and the business activities of state institutions and state organisations of any kind is paid to the budget of Asgardia in full.
§ 9. Asgardia respects intellectual property rights. These rights will be further defined by law.
§ 10. The Government encourages the development of private business by establishing an appropriate state insurance system. Private business is regulated by the law of Asgardia.
§ 11. The Government shall establish a single-payer, universal health insurance program. Contribution to this program by citizens is regulated by the law of Asgardia.
§ 12. The tax system and tax terms are regulated by the law of Asgardia.

Article 14. Scientific Resources
§ 1. Asgardia is a nation state which celebrates science, the digitised noosphere, and ideas combining the advantages of information technology in virtual and physical space.
§ 2. Asgardia accumulates intellectual resources by digitising and storing the wealth of human knowledge in space.
§ 3. Asgardia creates and stores in orbit and on celestial bodies a Databank of biological materials from Earth.
§ 4. Science, art, research, and education may be pursued freely in Asgardia, subject to the Constitution.
§ 5. Asgardia’s electronic resources include, among others, a secure information and telecommunications network, an electronic mail network, electronic mass media, and television and radio broadcasting.
§ 6. Asgardia guarantees the rights of authors, inventors and users of intellectual property. Intellectual property is defined in the Law of Asgardia and this constitution.

Article 15. Property
§ 1. Property in Asgardia ensures and guarantees the rights and freedoms of citizens, the security, welfare, and development of Asgardia, and serves the achievement of the common good.
§ 2. Asgardia recognizes exclusive (inalienable) state property, state property used for public needs, state property that constitutes the wealth of Asgardian citizens used for the common good, private property, and mixed forms of property.
§ 3. Property in Asgardia includes material and non-material objects such as information and intellectual property.
§ 4. Restrictions on property rights, as well as the procedure for circulation and disposal of property, are set by the law of Asgardia.
§ 5. Asgardia guarantees and protects all types of property.
§ 6. The right to own or to hold property is inviolable. Property rights shall be defined by law, in conformity with the public welfare. Private property may be taken for public use upon just compensation therefor.



CHAPTER 5. GOVERNMENT BY THE PEOPLE AND SOCIAL JUSTICE

Article 16. Government by the People
§ 1. Asgardian citizens are the source of Asgardia’s powers. 
§ 2. The collective will of Asgardian citizens is implemented through their participation in elections to state bodies and monitoring of these bodies, referenda, and interaction with their representatives in elected state bodies.
§ 3. Elections to state bodies and citizen participation in developing, making, implementing, and monitoring the performance of state administrative decisions is conducted primarily via electronic voting.
§ 4. Prejudice against participation in elections and referenda based on place of birth, residence, citizenship, language, gender, sexual orientation, race, nationality, creed, financial standing of Earth nations, and other differences is prohibited.
§ 5. State bodies and officials may not intervene in elections, put pressure on citizens, or falsify elections during democratic procedures.
§ 6. Government by the People in Asgardia is ensured by:
 a. establishing a procedure for elections, requirements applicable to candidates and election time frames;
 b. ensuring that state body officials can be replaced and setting maximum term limits for government positions;
 c. court protection of Asgardian citizen rights to run for office and be elected;
 d. public control via electronic resources of the public activities of state bodies, regular reporting to citizens, provision of open information about the state of different areas of government responsibilities in the format set by the law;
 e. procedures that allow citizens to put forward legislative proposals and initiate referenda;
 f. separation of powers;
 g. the work of the Council of Supreme Values which monitors the activities of state bodies to ensure they are compliant with Asgardia’s Supreme Values and Constitution.
§ 7. The supreme form of the expression of public will in Asgardia is a referendum. Referenda are used to resolve important matters in Asgardia’s public life. The Head of State, Parliament, the Council of Supreme Values, and citizens have the right to initiate referenda.

Article 17. Fairness 
§ 1. Asgardia recognizes that every person has an inalienable right to fair treatment and facilitates the enjoyment of this right.
§ 2. Asgardia is a nation state of social justice which strives to ensure that citizens enjoy material benefits expected by other citizens, society, and the state, which are produced by the citizen through labor.
§ 3. Fairness in Asgardia is ensured through the state respecting the legal interests of all lawful interest groups and striving to balance conflicting interests.
§ 4. To ensure fairness, the state encourages:
 a. equal rights and equality of human dignity;
 b. state and public support for groups in need, charity, philanthropy, and mutual aid;
 c. work and scientific and technological progress.
§ 5. The state encourages the work of citizens and citizen associations, including investors and philanthropists, who engage in socially important activities.

Article 18. Equality of Dignity for All 
§ 1. Asgardia recognises the equal dignity of all persons.
§ 2. Every person has the right to have their dignity recognised and protected in life and after death. No grounds can be used to diminish human dignity. The dignity of Asgardian citizens is protected by the state.
§ 3. The views of people and Asgardian citizens concerning human dignity are formed and fostered through education, parenting, propaganda and the media in accordance with Asgardia’s Supreme Values.
§ 4. The state protects groups of citizens who find themselves in a difficult position on Asgardian territory by providing them equal access to food, clothing, shelter and basic material benefits.
§ 6. The government seeks to reduce inequality of social conditions and opportunities for Asgardian citizens, including those contingent on their country of residence.

Article 19. Labor
§ 1. The state and society encourage labor and seek to increase its value, significance, and prestige.
§ 2. Employment rights are regulated by Asgardian law in accordance with generally recognized principles and norms of international law.

Article 20. Social Protection
§ 1. Social protection of citizens takes the form of social support and assistance to the needy and pensioners.
§ 2. Social protection is provided in accordance with Asgardian law.



CHAPTER 6. SECURITY IN ASGARDIA

Article 21. Security Areas
§ 1. Asgardia’s security doctrine is exclusively peaceful and defensive in nature.
§ 2. Asgardia protects its territories and humankind from threats originating in space. Asgardia also defends itself and its citizens from external and internal threats.

Article 22. Security of Citizens
§ 1. Asgardia defines the security of citizens as the ability of the state and the citizen to overcome threats and minimise risks in the present and future.
§ 2. Citizen security is ensured in Asgardian territory.
§ 3. Asgardia guarantees protection from any slavery or servitude, physical or emotional violence and compulsion, unlawful dependence and restrictions, and unlawful obligations or subordination, within its territory. 
§ 4. State bodies and diplomatic representative bodies of Asgardia in Earth nations must use all peaceful means and measures to assist the provision of physical security of its citizens outside of Asgardia in accordance with Asgardia’s Constitution and laws, generally recognised international principles and norms, international treaties, laws and rules of nations in which Asgardian citizens reside.
§ 5. Asgardia prohibits persecution for views and convictions. Any persecution for expression of views is prohibited.
§ 6. Asgardia guarantees the protection of citizen personal data. 


Article 23. Security of Asgardia
§ 1. Asgardia maintains and protects its national sovereignty, national security and the security of its resources on celestial bodies, in space and on Earth using all of its state abilities, means and resources. 
§ 2. Asgardia monitors and forecasts external and internal threats, and security risks (including but not limited to space, military, political, informational, economic and environmental risks), and ensures that they are minimised, prevented or that damage from the realisation of such risks is minimised and their consequences are addressed.
§ 3. To ensure information security, the state regulates the circulation of certain types of information on the basis of the Constitution and in accordance with the law of Asgardia. 
§ 4. The state ensures the creation of a secure environment for the circulation of accurate information (including electronic databases of scientific research and technical information) and the creation of informational infrastructure that is resistant to different types of impact.

Article 24. Protection of Territories
§ 1. Asgardia uses state and private resources to build and operate systems to defend and protect its territories from threats originating in space independently and in cooperation with Earth nations and international organisations on the basis of bilateral and multilateral treaties. 
§ 2. In order to protect Asgardia and humankind, Asgardia’s authorised state bodies:
 a. monitor the condition and physical processes of potentially dangerous objects in near and outer space, model and forecast space-born threats, and their potential consequences; 
 b. monitor the condition and physical processes in Earth’s geospheres and model and forecast their potential consequences;
 c. monitor the Earth’s biosphere and emerging biological threats originating in space, model and forecast their potential consequences, and ways of defending against such threats. 
§ 3. In order to preserve humanity and Earth’s biodiversity, Asgardia organises and ensures the building of Space Arks, defensive platforms in space, to be used in the event of threats to the safety of humanity.

Article 25. Asgardia’s Aerospace Fleet
§ 1. For the defense of Asgardia, its orbital satellite constellation, Asgardia maintains and operates an aerospace fleet in accordance with international space law.
§ 2. The Ministry of Safety and Security controls Asgardia’s aerospace fleet in normal times.
§ 3. The Head of State and Parliament may declare a state of emergency, defence or disaster in accordance with the law. In such cases, the Head of State may assume the role of Commander-in-Chief. 
§ 4. Asgardia’s aerospace fleet operates in cooperation with Earth nation states and international organisations to achieve peace in Space and protect Argardia from space born threats.
§ 5. The creation of private prisons is prohibited in Asgardia. However, law may establish State owned and operated rehabilitation centers. 



CHAPTER 7. GOVERNMENT STRUCTURE

Article 26. National symbols
§ 1. Asgardia’s national symbols are:
 a. the national flag of Asgardia;
 b. the national coat of arms of Asgardia;
 c. the national anthem of Asgardia;
§ 2. Asgardia’s national symbols are chosen via a referendum and subsequently approved by Parliament and the Head of State in accordance with the procedure set by the law of Asgardia.
§ 3. Asgardia’s national motto is “Ab scientia libertas. Ab libertas pacem." (From science comes freedom. From freedom comes peace.).
§ 4. The description of Asgardia’s national symbols and the procedure for using them are set by the laws of Asgardia. 

Article 27. Language
§ 1. Asgardia’s official language shall be called Basic and is based on International English.
§ 2. The official language in Asgardia is the administrative and document languages.
§ 3. All Asgardian citizens may use their native languages for communication, education, parenting, and creative pursuits. The state guarantees that all may retain their native language but requires proficiency in Basic.
§ 4. In its relations with Earth nation states and international organizations, Asgardia uses Basic and the interlocutor. Agreements, treaties, and other international acts executed by Asgardia may also be prepared in a different language as requested by the other party on the mutual agreement of all parties. All agreements, treaties, and partnerships must be stored in Basic and the original interlocutor, if not Basic.

Article 28. Capitals
§ 1. The celestial capital of Asgardia, Asgard or Celestial Asgard, is located on a currently active near-Earth orbit satellite or satellites that are part of an orbital constellation. The capital may subsequently be located on a Space Ark or, eventually, on a moon entity in accordance with international space law.
§ 2. Celestial Asgard is an information portal and the virtual location of Asgardia’s state bodies, citizens, and infrastructure. The capital is used for address purposes by Asgardian citizens, other persons, Earth nation states, and international organizations to contact Asgardian state bodies and officials.
§ 3. Individual and collective enquiries by Asgardian citizens, other individuals, and legal entities to Asgardian state bodies and officials must be sent electronically in a manner that allows the enquiring party to be identified and authenticated using the virtual resources of the capital of Asgardia.
§ 4. The Earth capital of Asgardia, Asgard or Earth Asgard, is the location of state bodies as required and the location of software and hardware complexes of Asgardia’s Earth entities, if Asgardia has territory (natural, artificial on hard surfaces or water, lawfully located in Earth nation states or not occupied by Earth nations).
§ 5. The status of both capitals, the legal arrangements for their location, their operational procedures, and resource use are set by the law of Asgardia.

Article 29. Foreign Relations
§ 1. Asgardia conducts its foreign policy based on its mission and Supreme Values, as well as the national interest.
§ 2. Achieving international legal recognition of Asgardia, including establishing diplomatic relations with Earth nation states and opening embassies and consulates in such nations is one of the objectives of Asgardia’s foreign policy.
§ 3. Asgardia opens embassies in all recognised states both on Earth and in space.
§ 4. Asgardia’s foreign policy is aimed at achieving a balance of general space and planetary interests and its national interest.
§ 5. Asgardia builds international relations and collaborates with other nations on the basis of international treaties and agreements executed by authorized state bodies.

Article 30. Government 
§ 1. Asgardia is governed by its citizens through referenda and the following state bodies: Head of State, Council of Supreme Values, Parliament, the government and its ministries, as well as the Court of Justice, law enforcement, and supervisory authorities. 
§ 2. Asgardia’s government is based on the separation of the legislature, executive, judiciary, and supervisory branches. The Head of State is the head of the government and leads the Executive branch. 
§ 3. The authority of state bodies is set by the Constitution and the law of Asgardia. 
§ 4. Asgardia, through its state bodies and officials, is responsible for developing all areas of the state’s procedures and activities in accordance with its mission and Supreme Values by exercising the authority specified by the Constitution and the law of Asgardia and using state resources.



CHAPTER 8. ADMINISTRATION OF GOVERNMENT

Article 31. Legal System and Branch structures
§ 1. The Constitution of Asgardia is the foundation of Asgardia’s legal system. Asgardia’s Constitution takes precedence over all other legal documents and is directly applicable.
§ 2. Asgardia’s legal acts include:
 a. referendum decisions;
 b. decrees of the Head of State;
 c. acts of the Council of Supreme Values;
 d. international treaties;
 e. laws;
 f. acts of Parliament;
 g. Government resolutions;
 h. National Audit Office acts;
 i. prosecution authority acts;
 j. National Bank acts;
 k. acts of ministries;
 l. security service acts.
§ 3. Asgardia’s Constitution and legal acts apply throughout Asgardia’s territory and to all Asgardian citizens irrespective of their location. In the event of differences between legal acts of the Earth nation state in which an Asgardian citizen is located and Asgardia’s legal acts, if such differences are not addressed by an international treaty to which Asgardia is a party, the Asgardian citizen may operate on the basis of the acts of the nation state in which he/she is located.
§ 4. Laws and other legal acts adopted in Asgardia may not be counter to Asgardia’s Constitution or distort its provisions in any other way. Laws and other legal acts that are conflicting with the Constitution shall be repealed and declared void in accordance with the procedure set by the law of Asgardia.
§ 5. International treaties executed by Asgardia may not contradict its Constitution. Treaties executed by Asgardia become part of its legal system.
§ 6. Asgardia recognizes generally accepted international principles and norms.
§ 7. The requirements for preparation, consideration, adoption, official publication, entry into force, interpretation, and systematization of legal acts, as well as legal force and methods of resolving contradictions between legal acts, are set by the Constitution and Asgardian law. 
§ 8. The branches of Government are: 
 a. Executive, 
 b. Legislative, 
 c. Judicial, and 
 d. Supervisory.
§ 9. The Head of State (HoS) is the head of the Executive branch.
§ 10. The Executive branch shall include the elected Ministry Chairpersons.
§ 11. The Legislative branch is comprised of the Parliament and Ministry offices.
§ 12. The Judicial branch is composed of the Court of Justice. There shall be one Supreme Court of Justice. The law may define inferior courts as deemed necessary.
§ 13. Council of Supreme Values and law enforcement are a supervisory branch of government.
§ 14. No officer of the government or law shall be permitted to hold more than one office at a time.

Article 32. Asgardia’s Head of State
§ 1. The Head of State (HoS) is limited to a maximum of two terms. Each term shall not exceed five (5) years of civic service.
§ 2. The HoS shall be a minimum age of thirty-five (35), hold a professional certification in law and/or science, and be a citizen of Asgardia for at least five (5) years. The required merits of Candidates for HoS shall be further defined by law.
§ 3. The Head of State is not above the law of Asgardia.
§ 4. The Head of Nation role shall be abolished upon the adoption of this Constitution. The current Head of Nation, as defined by Decree # 1, shall be requested to take the honorable role of Head of State. After five (5) years, the first Head of State shall agree to step down unless voted to a second term in office. In the event the Head of Nation declines to become the Head of State, up to five (5) Candidates shall be vetted by special committee appointed by the Head of Nation, within thirty (30) Earth-days, and hold a general Election where the candidate with the most votes shall become the Head of State. In the case where two or more Candidates have the same number of Votes, the Head of Nation shall cast a tie-breaker vote.
§ 5. The second and subsequent Heads of State may be any Asgardian Citizen that submits his/her candidacy and qualifications to the Parliament for consideration. The Parliament shall appoint a committee of no more than seven (7) members to confirm the qualifications and, upon committee approval, provide the recommendation of the Candidates to the Council of Supreme Values. The Council will further interview the Candidates and confirm their fitness to lead the honorable office as defined by the Supreme Values of Asgardia. Three Earth-months prior to the conclusion of the current Head of State term, the Council of Supreme Values shall present the Candidates to the public for a final vote. There will be a maximum of five (5) candidates including the current Head of State, if he/she has not already served a second term. Two Earth-months prior to the conclusion of the current Head of State, the general election shall commence. Citizen votes shall be collected over a period of 48 Earth-hours and the candidate with the most votes shall be the next Head of State. In the even that two or more Candidates have the same number of votes, the Chairperson of the Council of the Supreme Values shall cast the tie-breaker vote.
§ 6. Upon retirement of the HoS, except in the case of Impeachment, he/she shall enjoy guaranteed personal safety and the protection of his/her private property for the remainder of his/her life.
[Edit: Is that necessary in the constitution as it is a matter of law?]
§ 7. While in Office, the Head of State shall be referred only by titles of “Asgardian Head of State” or “Head of Asgardia.”
§ 8. In the event the Head of State dies, resigns, becomes permanently incapacitated or is declared missing, as well as in the circumstances stipulated by law where the Head of State is unable to perform his/her duties, the duties of Head of State temporarily pass to the Chairperson of the Council of Supreme Values until the reasons which prevented the Head of State from performing such duties cease to be in effect or until the inauguration of the new Head of State. In the event of return from the above circumstances the Head of State must prove his/her fitness within two Earth-months and by the approval of a certified medical physician duly appointed by the Ministry of Science. In the event that both the Head of State and Chairperson of Council of Supreme Values are unable to perform such duties defined herein for the Head of State, the responsibilities shall fall to the following line of succession:
 a. Ministry of Science Chairperson
 b. Ministry of Safety and Security Chairperson
 c. Ministry of Finance Chairperson
 d. Ministry of Administrative Affairs Chairperson
 e. Ministry of Justice Chairperson
§ 9. The Head of State:
 a. appoints the Supreme Justice of the Judicial Court, the Chairperson of the National Audit Office, the Chairperson of the Council of Supreme Values, and Asgardian ambassadors extraordinary and plenipotentiary to Earth nation states;
 b. has the right to veto candidates nominated in accordance with the Constitution and the Law for the positions of Chairperson of the Government, member of the Council of Supreme Values, and Chairman of the National Bank, and has the right to propose removal of persons who hold these positions;
 c. calls elections of members of Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and the law of Asgardia and has the right to propose dissolution of Parliament to the Council of Supreme Values;
 d. negotiates and signs international treaties and ratification instruments, accepts letters of credence and recall from diplomatic representatives; treaties must be approved by Parliament via a simple majority within six (6) Earth-months of HoS signing;
 e. proposes draft laws to Parliament, signs laws adopted by Parliament, returns draft laws without signature with noted objections, and has the right to veto laws adopted by Parliament;
 g. grants clemency;
 h. staffs the Administration of the Head of State, the body which supports the work of the Head of State;
 i. creates discussion and advisory bodies to support him/her in performing his/her duties;
 j. performs other duties stipulated by the Constitution and the law of Asgardia.
§ 10. In the event of aggression against Asgardia by nation states, or direct and credible threats of such aggression, the Head of State declares a state of emergency in accordance with the law of Asgardia, which must be subsequently confirmed by Parliament.
§ 11. The Head of State issues decrees which are mandatory for Asgardian citizens. Head of State decrees must not conflict the Constitution and Asgardia’s laws.

Article 33. Council of Supreme Values
§ 1. The terms “Council of Supreme Values,” “Supreme Values Council,” and “The Council” are synonymous.
§ 2. The Council shall be comprised of no more than thirty (30)　members appointed by Parliament.
§ 3. Council members must be of minimum age of thirty (30) Earth-years, hold a professional certification in law, business, or science, and be an Asgardian citizen for five (5) Earth-years or more.
§ 4. Council members may not serve more than a single, fifteen (15) Earth-year term.
§ 5. Powers of Impeachment shall be empowered to the supervisory branch.
§ 6. Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than the removal from Office and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust, or Profit under Asgardia. The Party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment, and Punishment in accordance with the Law.
§ 7. Any officer of law shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and in conviction of, treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.
§ 8. The Council is charged to review and make consistent all Decrees made by the Head of State. By a two-thirds majority, they may vote to void and remove any decree that violates the spirit of the Supreme Values of Asgardia.
§ 9. No Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of the Council of Supreme Values, accept any gift, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatsoever, from any King, Prince, or foreign nation state; In addition, no title of nobility shall be granted by Asgardia.
§ 10. The Council is charged with the removal of officers in the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial branches in accordance of law.
§ 11. The Council shall make the final recommendation for candidates of the Head of State for public election.
§ 12. Only the Council may consider demands to dissolve Parliament. The Council has the right to dissolve the Parliament based on the Supreme Values of Asgardia. The dissolution of Parliament requires a three-fourths, super-majority, vote of The Council members and approval from the Head of State.
When the Parliament is dissolved, there must be a general election of members within forty (40) Earth-days from the date of dissolution, and the Parliament must be convoked within thirty (30) Earth-days from the date of the election.

Article 34. Parliament
§ 1. Parliament is a unicameral legislature which represents all Asgardian citizens.
§ 2. The term of office of members of the Parliament shall be six (6) years. Parliament seats shall be up for election on a six (6) year cadence, with only half of the seats of Parliament to be elected at any one time.
§ 3. Parliament members must be at least twenty-five (25) Earth-years of age and a Citizen of Asgardia.
§ 4. The Parliament is directly elected from Citizens that submit their candidacy to The Council and directly voted for by citizen elections.
§ 5. The status of members of Parliament, procedure for forming and organizing the work of Parliament, nominating, electing, and recalling candidates is set by the Constitution and the law of Asgardia. Parliament adopts rules to regulate internal administrative matters.
§ 6. Deliberation in Parliamentary sessions shall be public. However, a closed meeting may be held where a majority of two-thirds or more of those members present passes a resolution therein. Parliament shall keep a record of proceedings. This record shall be published and given general circulation, excepting such parts of proceedings of closed session as may be deemed to require secrecy. All open sessions of Parliament shall make votes of the members on any matter to be public record. Parliamentary sessions are held using video conferencing and other electronic systems which allow members to be identified and authenticated.
§ 7. Members of Parliament elect a Chairperson and his/her deputies from among Members of Parliament. Upon the acceptance of the Chairperson role, the former role shall be relinquished and open for immediate election of a new Parliament member.
§ 8. Parliamentary sessions may be held in person, remotely, or electronically.
§ 9. Parliament must confirm and ratify all treaties signed by the Head of State with a simple majority within six (6) Earth-months of the treaty’s signing.
§ 10. Upon return of any vetoed law by the Head of State, Parliament may still enact that law if a super-majority of three-fourths of Parliament vote in favor of it.
§ 11. Parliament shall be housed by no more than one member for every 5,000 Citizens and no less than one member for every 10,000 Citizens. During the first five (5) years of Asgardia’s Constitution acceptance by all Citizens, the parliament may not be housed with less than 50 Parliament members.
§ 12. Except in cases provided by law, members of Parliament shall be exempt from apprehension while the Parliament is in session, and any members apprehended before the opening of the session shall be freed during the term of the session upon demand of the Council of Supreme Values.
§ 13. An ordinary session of the Parliament shall be convened once per Earth-year.
§ 14. The Council may determine to convene extraordinary sessions of Parliament. When a quarter or more of the total members of Parliament makes the demand, The Council must agree to such convocation.
§ 15. The Parliament’s powers include:
 a. adopting Asgardian law;
 b. appointing the Chairman of Parliament, Prosecutor General, Chairman of the National Bank, Court Justices on the proposal of the Chamber of Supreme Values;
 c. appointing and removing ministers from post on the proposal of the Chairman of the Government;
 d. appointing and removing National Audit Office auditors from post;
 e. calling elections for Head of State;
 f. deciding on resignation of the Government and individual ministers;
 g. approving Head of State decisions to declare a state of emergency;
 h. calling referenda;
 i. holding parliamentary hearings and investigations, including summoning representatives of state bodies.
§ 16. Parliament issues resolutions on matters within its purview pursuant to the Constitution and the law of Asgardia. The procedure for Parliament adopting Asgardian laws and responsibility for violation of this procedure are set by the law.
§ 17. Asgardian law will establish taxes, duties, imposts, and excises, to pay the debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of Asgardia.
§ 18. Business cannot be transacted in Parliament unless one-third or more of total membership is present. All matters shall be decided by a majority of those present, except as elsewhere provided in the Constitution, and in case of a tie, the presiding officer shall decide the issue.

Article 35. Government and Ministries
§ 1. Asgardia’s supreme state Legislative body is the Government.
§ 2. The Government is a collective body which comprises the Chairman of the Government, his/her deputies and ministers. The Government may hold meetings in person, remotely, or electronically.
§ 3. The system of the state’s executive bodies comprises 11 ministries.
§ 4. The Chairman of the Government is appointed by Parliament on the proposal of the Council of Supreme Values on agreement with the Head of State. Candidates for minister are nominated by the Chairman of the Government and approved by Parliament. Ministers may be Asgardian Citizens aged thirty-five (35) or older, who have a degree, qualifications, and professional experience in relevant area and the physical and mental health to perform the duties of a minister. Members of Parliament who have a private business must put it into blind-trust management for the duration of their Government position to avoid a conflict of interest, on agreement with the Chairman of the Government.
§ 5. The Chairman of the Government sets priority areas for the Government and organizes its work in accordance with the Constitution, the law of Asgardia, and Head of State decrees.
§ 6. The procedure for forming and organizing the work of the Government is set by the Constitution and the law of Asgardia.
§ 7. The Government’s powers include:
 a. implementing and defending the Constitution, international treaties, laws, and Head of State decrees;
 b. developing and submitting draft bills to Parliament;
 c. developing and submitting draft budgets to Parliament and ensuring their implementation;
 d. controlling implementation of Government resolutions and other acts of state executive bodies;
 e. ensuring that national sovereignty is maintained and protected;
 f. ensuring national security and the security of its citizens;
 g. foreign relations;
 h. managing the national debt;
 i. organizing a system for information support for state administration and statistical monitoring;
 j. providing a scientific basis for the actions of the executive, developing administrative decisions, plans, forecasts and state development programs, and forecasting the consequences of planned decisions;
 k. monitoring social processes and interacting with citizens;
 l. controlling the work of state executive bodies;
 m. ensuring the rule of law, protecting the rights and obligations of citizens, and maintaining public order;
 n. organizing a system to train staff for the civil service and creating a succession pool;
§ 8. Asgardia has exclusive legislative rights in all financial matters. All Asgardia revenue and expenditure must be included in the budget, which must be balanced. Meeting the needs of Asgardia’s state administrative bodies and state-owned enterprises must not overload taxpayers and must ensure uniformity of living conditions in the Nation.
§ 9. If the budget for the following year is not approved by law before the end of the financial year, prior to it becoming effective, the Government may conduct spending required to:
 a. maintain the institutions set by the law and implement measures set by the law;
 b. perform Asgardia’s legal obligations;
 c. continue other work and services if the budget for the previous year approved these amounts.
§ 10. The Government issues resolutions within its purview in accordance with, and for the performance of, the Constitution, international treaties, Head of State decrees, acts of the Council of Supreme Values, and the law.
§ 11. The Ministries of Government are:
 a. Ministry of Information and Communication
 b. Ministry of Justice
 c. Ministry of Science
 d. Ministry of Citizenship
 e. Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 f. Ministry of Finance
 g. Ministry of Trade and Commerce
 h. Ministry of Youth and Education
 i. Ministry of Safety and Security
 j. Ministry of Equity and Resources
 k. Ministry of Administrative Affairs
§ 2. Each Ministry Chairperson must be at least thirty-five (35) Earth-years of age, possess a professional certification in law and/or science, and be a Citizen of Asgardia.
§ 3. Ministry Chairpersons are appointed by the Head of State in accordance to this Constitution and the law of Asgardia.
§ 4. Ministry staff shall be the purview the Ministry Chairperson, except that staff must hold a professional certification in the domain for that Ministry.

Article 36. Decision-Making and Implementation 
§ 1. The Head of State sets the priorities for domestic and foreign policy by making annual and extraordinary addresses to Asgardian citizens at in-person and remote meetings of representatives of the supreme state bodies of Asgardia and issuing other decrees within his/her purview. The Head of State’s addresses serve as the document used to plan the country’s domestic and foreign policy for the upcoming year and beyond with the aim of performing Asgardia’s mission. The Head of State’s address is binding for all Asgardian state bodies and officials.
§ 2. Asgardian laws, plans, and state development programs are developed and adopted in accordance with the Head of State’s address to implement the Constitution and perform Asgardia’s mission. Asgardia’s laws regulate key social relations.
§ 3. Asgardian citizens may initiate the making of government administrative decisions and participate in their preparation by means of electronic voting (right to propose legislation) in accordance with the law.
§ 4. To ensure implementation of Asgardian law, the Government and its ministries and other state bodies issue statutory instruments.
§ 5. Asgardian state bodies monitor the practical application of adopted/issued acts to improve legal acts within their purview. Monitoring and supervision of the implementation of adopted/issued legal acts is performed by Asgardia’s supervisory authorities and also by Asgardian citizens using the mechanisms for public monitoring by means of electronic voting.

Article 37. Judiciary
§ 1. Justice in Asgardia is only administered in court.
§ 2. The terms: “The Court,” “Court of Justice,” and “Justice Court” are synonymous.
§ 3. The judiciary in Asgardia takes the form of the Court of Justice, comprising a presidium and four panels for constitutional, civil, administrative and criminal proceedings.
§ 4. The Court is headed by the Supreme Justice who is appointed by the Head of State. Court Justices are appointed by Parliament on the proposal of the Council of Supreme Values. The term of appointment is no more than 15 years.
§ 5. The Presidium of the Court comprises nine (9) Justices. The Presidium of the Court is chaired by the Supreme Justice.
§ 6. Justices may be Asgardian citizens aged at least thirty-five (35) Earth-years of age, hold a degree in law, and experience of working in the legal profession for at least five (5) years. The law may set additional requirements in respect of Justices.
§ 7. The purview, composition of panels, procedure for forming and organising the work of the Court are set by the law.
§ 8. The Supreme Justice organises the work of the Court, sets the Court's internal code of conduct, calls and chairs meetings of the court’s Presidium and performs other duties in accordance with the law.
§ 9. Court hearings may be held in person or using video conferencing and other electronic systems which allow participants to be identified and authenticated.
§ 10. The Court is funded exclusively through the national budget in accordance with the law of Asgardia.
§ 11. Adherence to Court rulings are mandatory for Asgardian citizens and all state bodies. 
§ 12. The death penalty is prohibited in Asgardia.
§ 13. All defendants shall be permitted full opportunity to examine all evidence and witnesses without prejudice. At all times, defendants shall have the right to competent counsel. In the event a defendant cannot obtain competent council by his/her own efforts the state shall appoint counsel for his/her use.
§ 14. In cases involving criminality, as defined by Asgardian law, the defendant shall enjoy the right to a timely and public trial. The trial shall be carried out by an impartial, competent judge and a jury of one's peers.
§ 15. No person shall be held criminally liable for an act which was lawful at the time it was committed, or of which he has been acquitted, nor shall he be placed in double jeopardy.
§ 16 Any person, in case he is acquitted after he has been arrested or detained, may sue the State for redress as provided by law.
§ 17 No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land, space, or naval forces, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.
§ 18. Citizens have the right to appeal decisions handed down at trial by the process defined in the law of Asgardia.


Article 38. Prosecutor’s Office
§ 1. The Prosecutor’s office is a division of the Court of Justice.
§ 2. The prosecutor’s office monitors compliance of acts within state bodies and citizens on behalf of Asgardia. In the case of non-compliance, the prosecutor is responsible for presenting the case on behalf of Asgardia according to the law.
§ 3. The prosecutor’s office is appointed and removed by the Parliament.
§ 4. The prosecutor’s office is composed of the Prosecutor General and his/her deputies as needed.  Appointment to the position of deputy is made by the Prosecutor General.
§ 5. The Prosecutor General is appointed for a term of no more than seven (7) years.
§ 6. Citizens appointed to the prosecutor’s office must be thirty-five (35) years of age or older, hold a degree in law and have previous work within the justice system.


Article 39. National Audit Office
§ 1. The National Audit Office (NAO) is a division of the Council of Supreme Values.
§ 2. The NAO is responsible for auditing central government departments, government agencies and non-departmental public bodies. The NAO is also responsible to carry out Value for Money audits into the administration of public policy financing.
§ 3. It is the responsibility of the NAO to publish the results of audits for information to citizens and Parliament before Parliament votes on policies involving public finance.
§ 4. The NAO is comprised of an Auditor General and deputy auditors as needed.
§ 5. Appointments to and removal from the NAO are carried out by the Council of Supreme Values.
§ 6. Appointment to the position of Auditor General are made for a maximum of a five (5) year term.
§ 7. Appointment to the position of deputy auditor in the NAO must be approved by Parliament.
§ 8. Citizens appointed to the NAO must have a degree in business or commerce and have worked in financial control or auditing for large projects within the general public or private business community.


Article 40. Law Enforcement
§ 1. Division of supervisory branch.
§ 2. Law enforcement authorities (Security Services) ensure national security and the security of citizens, rule of law and law and order, fight crime and other offences and defend the rights and freedoms of Asgardian citizens.
§ 3. To ensure the security of Asgardian citizens living in Earth nation states, Asgardian security services shall work with the security services of the countries in which they permanently reside on the basis of bilateral and multilateral treaties.
§ 4. The procedure for forming and staffing security services, their operating principles and areas, powers, resources and means, as well as the procedure for monitoring and oversight of their work, are set by the law.
§ 5. No person shall be apprehended except upon warrant issued by a competent judicial officer which specifies the offense with which the person is charged, unless he/she is apprehended while the is offense being committed.
§ 6. No person shall be arrested or detained without being at once informed of the charges against him/her or without the immediate privilege of counsel; nor shall he/she be detained without adequate cause; and upon demand of any person such cause must be immediately shown in open court in his/her presence and the presence of his/her counsel.
§ 7. The infliction of torture by any public officer and cruel punishments are absolutely forbidden.



CHAPTER 9. ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT OF THE CONSTITUTION

Article 41. Adoption of the Constitution
Asgardia’s Constitution is adopted by means of a referendum. A period of two Earth-days shall be allowed for the collection of all votes.

Article 42. Quorum for Adoption of the Constitution
Asgardia’s Constitution is adopted with a super-majority vote of three-fourth of registered citizens.

Article 43. Amendment of the Constitution
Asgardia’s Constitution may be amended by means of a referendum. However, this article of amendment of the Constitution is unchangeable and cannot be voided nor limited by any law, decree, or other amendment.

Article 44. Procedure for Amendment of the Constitution
Proposals on amending the Constitution may be made by a citizen, the Head of State, Parliament, and the Council of Supreme Values in accordance with the law of Asgardia. All proposed amendments must be ratified by the Council of Supreme Values. No proposed amendment shall be made to the constitution until a two-thirds majority of parliament vote in favor of the proposal.



CHAPTER 10. TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 45. First Constitution
The first Constitution of Asgardia will be put to a referendum by Igor Ashurbeyli, proclaimed the Head of Nation on 20/Jan/2017 by Decree #1. The referendum on adopting the first Asgardian Constitution is open for voting to persons over the age of 16 who have submitted their personal data via the Internet and agree to the terms and conditions published on the https://asgardia.space website. These persons are considered Asgardian citizens on a preferential basis until the adoption of the law on citizenship of Asgardia and will retain this status subsequently if desired.

Article 46. The Head of Nation role shall be abolished upon the adoption of this Constitution. The current Head of Nation, as defined by Decree # 1, shall be requested to take the honorable role of Head of State. After five (5) years, the first Head of State shall agree to step down unless voted to a second term in office. 

Article 47. Special Procedure for the Election of a New Head of State
In the event the Head of Nation declines to become the Head of State, 
subsequent Head of State may be any Asgardian Citizen that submits his/her candidacy and qualifications to the special committee appointed by the Head of Nation for consideration. The special committee of no more than seven (7) members shall confirm the qualifications and, upon committee approval, provide the recommendation of the Candidates to the Council of Supreme Values. The Council will further interview the Candidates and confirm their fitness to lead the honorable office as defined by the Supreme Values of Asgardia. The Council of Supreme Values shall present the Candidates to the public for a final vote within thirty (30) Earth-days. There will be a maximum of five (5) candidates. The general election shall commence upon presentation of the candidates. Citizen votes shall be collected over a period of 48 Earth-hours and the candidate with the most votes shall be the next Head of State. In the event that two or more Candidates have the same number of votes, the former Head of Nation shall cast the tie-breaker vote.

Article 48. Special Rights of the Head of State before the Election of Parliament and Formation of the Government of Asgardia
In the absence of Asgardian laws and for the purposes of implementing the provisions of the Constitution before the election of Parliament and formation of the Government of Asgardia, the Head of State may issue decrees which remain in force until appropriate laws are adopted. All decrees will be reviewed by the Council of Supreme Values and the Court of Justice. Any decree may be revoked by the Council of Supreme Values and the Court of Justice, provided that a two-thirds majority stand in agreement from both state bodies.

Article 49. Deadline for the Election of Parliament 
Elections for members of Parliament are called no later than six (6) months after the adoption of the Constitution. The procedure for holding the first elections is set by a decree of the Head of State in accordance with the Constitution. The law on subsequent elections of members of Parliament is adopted after Parliament is formed.

Article 50. Deadline for Forming the Government of Asgardia
The Government is formed no later than six (6) months after the election of Asgardia’s Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Until a Government is formed, the duties of the Government are performed by the Head of State and his/her Administration.

Article 51. Effectiveness of the Constitution
The Constitution of Asgardia becomes effective on the day of its official publication at https://asgardia.space on the basis of the results from the referendum of 18 June 2017.
